---
layout: post
title: Happy 2014!
author: Brian Shirai
---

New beginnings are exciting and I'm delighted to announce that I've joined a
terrific team of people at [Enova](http://enova.com) who are working hard to
innovate and push Ruby well beyond its comfort zone.

I'm looking forward to sharing the journey with you as we build fantastic
developer tools, migrate giant monolithic Rails apps, and create
next-generation distributed applications that scale efficiently to _all the
cores_. There are huge challenges given the engineering tasks, but also
tremendous opportunities to demonstrate how powerful Ruby is and can be.

At Enova, I'll be continuing my OSS work on Rubinius and RubySpec. This is a
generous contribution from Enova to the Ruby community. I'll also be devoting
time to Rubinius X as we explore and address the many deficiencies in Ruby
that continue to drive developers and businesses to other languages like Go,
Clojure, and Node.js.

For those still running on Ruby 1.8.7, we'd love for you to collaborate with
us as we build tools to migrate to newer Ruby versions. If you're already on
Ruby 1.9.3 or later, we'd love to help you explore migrating from MRI to a
Ruby implementation with a modern garbage collector, JIT compiler, and good
support for concurrency. If you're considering rewriting your Ruby app in some
other language, please let us know why.

If you've already rewritten your Ruby apps in another language, I'd especially
like to hear from you. Rewrites always involve new architecture decisions as
well. I'd like to understand if the Ruby _language_ prevented your new
architecture decisions or if better technology in Ruby would have saved the
cost of rewriting an application.

Kumiko, Miwa, and I will be moving to Chicago. If you're in the area, we look
forward to meeting you. If not, hopefully you'll come visit Chicago and say
hello, maybe at [RailsConf 2014](http://lanyrd.com/2014/railsconf/)!

Happy New Year!

